Osinachi Project Landing Page

Website: https://osinachiproject.online
IP Address: http://13.61.25.145/
Project Overview

The Osinachi Project Landing Page is a demonstration of deploying a static web page on an Nginx web server hosted on an AWS EC2 instance. This project highlights the following key skills and configurations:

    Setting up a Linux server environment.
    Installing and configuring the Nginx web server.
    Deploying a custom HTML page.
    Securing the web server with SSL certificates using Certbot for HTTPS access.

The deployed landing page introduces the project creator and provides relevant project details.
Setup Instructions

Follow the steps below to replicate the setup of the Osinachi Project Landing Page.
1. Provision an AWS EC2 Instance

    Log in to your AWS account and launch an EC2 instance.
    Choose an Ubuntu 20.04 AMI for the server.
    Select an appropriate instance type (e.g., t3.micro).
    Configure the security group to allow the following traffic:
        HTTP (Port 80) for web traffic.
        HTTPS (Port 443) for secure web traffic.
        SSH (Port 22) for remote server access.

2. Install the Nginx Web Server

Run the following commands on the server to install and start Nginx:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install nginx -y

3. Deploy the HTML Landing Page
Navigate to the default web root directory of Nginx:

cd /var/www/html

Backup the default Nginx welcome page:

sudo mv index.nginx-debian.html index.html.bak

Upload the custom index.html file to the directory.
Restart Nginx to apply the changes:

sudo systemctl restart nginx

4. Configure SSL with Certbot
Install Certbot and the Nginx plugin:

sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx -y

Obtain and configure an SSL certificate for your domain:

sudo certbot --nginx -d osinachiproject.online

    Follow the prompts to:
        Enter your email address.
        Agree to the Terms of Service.
        Decline (optional) sharing your email address with the EFF.

Certbot will automatically update Nginx configurations to redirect HTTP traffic to HTTPS.
5. Verify Setup
Open a browser and navigate to https://osinachiproject.online to confirm the secure connection.
Test SSL auto-renewal:

sudo certbot renew --dry-run

Usage

To access the landing page, visit https://osinachiproject.online.
Contributors

    Osinachi Egbuna – Project creator and primary contributor.

License

This project is distributed under the MIT License. For more details, refer to the LICENSE file.
Steps to Add the README to Your Repository

Create a README File:

    Run the following command in your project directory:

    touch README.md

Edit the README File:

    Open the file using your preferred text editor.
    Copy and paste the content of this documentation into the file.

Commit and Push the README to GitHub:

git add README.md
git commit -m "Added README documentation"
git push

Process Summary

    Server Setup: Provisioned an EC2 instance and configured security groups for HTTP, HTTPS, and SSH traffic.
    Web Server Installation: Installed and started the Nginx web server.
    Landing Page Deployment: Uploaded a custom index.html file to the server's web root directory.
    SSL Configuration: Secured the website with Certbot-generated SSL certificates.
    Verification: Tested the website’s accessibility and SSL auto-renewal functionality.

Should you require additional information or assistance, please do not hesitate to reach out.
